So okay,
let's talk about what we've done, right?
And let's kind of just recap
really quickly, because again,
there's a lot going on here, right?
So I'm gonna pull up
that chart one more time,
because I do feel like it helps
to see a visual aid, right?
We're using Terraform cloud.
This is where all of our state exists.
This is where all of our source of truth
in the sense of what we've changed exists,
right?
And in Terraform cloud, although
unfortunately we won't be making teams
this time, right,
it then has the concept of teams.
So then underneath teams, we would have
our main automation workspaces, right?
Each one of these workspace has
a different problem that it's trying to
solve with state that it's
going to manage, right?
So in this case, the first brick we were
essentially building was
the TFE workspace, right?
This is a part of the chicken before
the egg scenario, when we wanna make it so
that we can push automation to
a repository and just be done, but
the workspace that tracks that
repository is not set up yet, right?
So we then create our repo first so
that, again,
once we have our workspace created and
they're in the same state,
meaning that the code that created
the workspace is now in the same
state if it tried to apply over and
over, we then connect them.
So we have no changes here and no changes
here, and then when we connect those two,
they start synchronizing, right?
And so now that we have this
synchronization, we can just go to our TFE
repository going forward, to push changes,
which is what we saw, and
why we then saw the plans automatically
start running in Terraform cloud, right?
So again, it's that chicken before the egg
where we have to say, this is a scenario
where it doesn't exist yet, but once it
does, it can be completely automated.
We need to do the same thing for
GitHub, right?
GitHub is kind of in the same boat where
we need to create the repo that tracks and
creates all of our repositories, and
we need to create a workspace for it.
So we have actually finished
the automation setup for Terraform cloud.
Going forward, if you need another
workspace, you now know how to do it.
If you need another project,
you now know how to do it, right?
That's it.
That's it, [LAUGH] that's all
that repository really does.
But if you think about it at scale,
right, when you've got 50 projects and
a hundred workspaces,
this becomes really nice, right?
And this is that life cycle.
So again, if you don't know, if you go to
the next repo we're gonna be creating,
which is terraform-github.
So that's gonna be
fem-eci-terraform-github.
Let me copy this link for you and
give it to you guys really quickly.
This is the next repo
we're gonna be creating.
And this is where you can copy and
paste the code.
And the branch that this exists in is
gonna be 04-setup-github-automation.
So this is technically the branch
that we're gonna be working in.
Now remember,
this branch is also the end result.
[LAUGH] So use it as an example for now.
And if I tell you to copy something,
just be aware of what I have up here
versus what you're copying, okay?
So what we wanna do is, we want to,
again, create a repository for
GitHub the same way that we created
a repository for Terraform.
But can we do that in automation yet?
Can I have Terraform create a repo for
me yet?
No, why not?
>> You need the provider.
>> Well, yeah, I need the provider,
yeah, exactly, and I need GitHub.
So what we're gonna do is,
I could say, you know what,
let's just put it in TFV call of the day,
I could.
But then that means when I go
to update Terraform resources,
I'm also gonna be updating
GitHub resources.
That also means that that pipeline
needs two secrets now instead of one.
That also means that that pipeline has
more of a chance to fail if one token
expires and the other one is still there.
This is why we separate life cycles,
right?
Save ourselves problems in the future.
So what we're gonna do is,
we're gonna go to GitHub.
I'm gonna go to my personal
profile repositories, right, and
I'm gonna click New, right?
So I'm gonna create a new repo
under my personal account.
And in this one, we're gonna say,
fem-eci-terraform,
right, cuz the TerraForm
repository GitHub, right?
Same thing as before, Private, Add Readme,
and another TerraForm, Git ignore, right?
So then I'm gonna click Create repository.
And now, I should have
a fem-eci-terraform-github repository.
I'll give you guys a few
seconds to catch up on that.
>> Is it possible to do what you're
doing with separate branches instead of
separate repositories?
>> [LAUGH] I love developers [LAUGH].
Yeah, I mean you can, but
then you have to manage branches.
So what happens if your
branch gets deleted?
What you can do then?
I understand why you don't
want to create things and
have to deal with more things,
I do, trust me.
[LAUGH] There's a valid reason as to
why we're separating these things, and
it's over years of me failing and
going through these pain points and
realizing time and time.
It's like one of those scenarios where
you know something's gonna fail.
You know eventually,
if you think about it hard enough,
there's a pinpoint
somewhere that could break.
And if you don't consider that and
separate it properly,
you're just gonna have problems.
So yes, you could put it in a branch,
absolutely, you totally could.
But again, then you have to
think about branch protection,
make sure nobody deletes that branch,
right?
You have to make sure that that branch
also has permissions around it for
approvals and things like that.
The repo is a production repo,
if you really think about it, right?
And so your branches are just really
branches to that production main branch,
right?
But if you have additional branches that
are also production branches equivalently,
then it doesn't really matter
necessarily where they are,
but you have to be aware of that.
I personally decide and
choose to separate them and
make it easy just because I have so
many components that I'm dealing with.
It's just easier to make sure
I'm not gonna trip over myself.
So yeah, you definitely can, but
I really do think that you're gonna,
I would be terrified of a branch
getting deleted or something.
Normally the main branch,
it's something that's deleted.
But you can, you absolutely can,
yeah, not recommended though.